Dear all,

This concerns the data on the Vela pulsar, for which
you may have already received the links...
These data could be used to
familiarize with typical spectral & pulsar analysis.

These are ascii files, each having one-second worth of data on the Vela
pulsar, recorded at Ooty, wherein the signal voltages in the two columns
represent data from the N and S arrays separately.
These data correspond to Nyquist sampled data across 16.5 MHz bandwidth
centered at 326.5 MHz. Thus time-interval between each row is (1/33) microseconds.
(Being raw voltage data, the distribution function is expected to be Gaussian...
something that you may wish to verify yourself).

Typical analysis will involve

1) taking 512 points (from a chosen column)
at a time, Fourier transforming them,
2) taking one half of the spectrum (corresponding to
the +ve frequencies) and
3) computing modulus-square for each of the 256 spectral
channels to obtain power (spectrum) as a function of channel number (1 to 256).
Each such power spectrum corresponds a time interval of (or as averaged over)
(512/33) microseconds.

4) Such power spectra may be averaged together in sets of M, based on the desired time
resolution ... given by (M*512/33) microseconds.  (say, M=60, corresponding to 1 msec resolution)

5) The 256-point power spectra thus averaged may be stacked one after another
to form a 2-d matrix of intensities, as a function of frequency and time.

When done properly, you can expect to see a set of (about 11) dispersed pulses in the
these 2-d spectra (often called dynamic spectra) from the present data on Vela pulsar.

Similar analysis can be done for the data in other column.
To observe correlated signal between the two halves of the telescope,
you may first compute the Fourier transform of each set of 512 points taken separately
from the two columns and multiply (channel-wise) the spectrum of N by the complex
conjugate of spectrum of S. And then follow steps 4 onward, for this cross-power-spectrum.

Once you have such 2-d data (dynamic spectrum), one can fold it at the pulsar period, and
also dedisperse it to obtain average profile. One also estimate the pulsar period and dispersion measure
separately. You may also estimate the amount of broadening of the pulse due to interstellar scattering.

Have fun with the data !

Attaching one sample of analysis, on 1-second worth of data,
and the files sent to you have similar duration data, at different times.
I suggest you do coding in python, which I am told is the language of the
future :)

best,

    --desh


The attached plot (png file) shows another example..
There might be a slips in the data (i.e. missing data --> lost time),
which would give non-regular appearance (jumps in) of the pulse tracks.

2 Attachments
